Fixed #24076 -- Added a warning about using dates with DateTimeField. (#17995)
django/django: docs/ref/models/fields.txt

    instead of a ``DateField`` and deciding how to handle the conversion from
    datetime to date at display time.

> .. warning::
> 
>     A ``datetime.datetime`` instance used with :class:`DateField` will be
>     localized to the :ref:`default timezone <default-current-time-zone>` and
>     converted to a ``datetime.date`` instance, removing its time component.

Reviewer: Sorry was rechecking the advice and

> Ideally, a symmetrical comment should be added in the documentation of DateField to explain what happens when you misuse it with a datetime.datetime values.

I think we can improve the symmetry between the two, something like

```suggestion
.. warning:: Always use :class:`DateField` with a ``datetime.date`` instance.

    If you have a ``datetime.datetime`` instance, it's recommended to convert
    it to a ``datetime.date`` first. If you don't, :class:`DateField` will
    localize the ``datetime.datetime`` to the :ref:`default timezone
    <default-current-time-zone>` and converted it to a ``datetime.date``
    instance, removing its time component. This is true for both storage and
    comparison.
```
<details><summary>Image</summary>

![image](https://github.com/django/django/assets/42296566/3ab3363e-b505-45ed-9e6f-7eb1244f20ff)
</details>

Author: No worries! I used what you have here (and changed "converted" to "convert").

Reviewer: Thank you ⭐

    instead of a ``DateField`` and deciding how to handle the conversion from
    datetime to date at display time.

.. warning::

    A ``datetime.datetime`` instance used with :class:`DateField` will first be
    converted to a ``datetime.date`` instance, which will remove its time
    component. If :setting:`USE_TZ` is ``True``, the ``datetime.datetime``
    instance will first be localized to the time zone in the

>     :setting:`TIME_ZONE` setting.

Author: Much better and shorter, thanks! I added these changes.

:class:`~django.forms.DateTimeInput`. The admin uses two separate
:class:`~django.forms.TextInput` widgets with JavaScript shortcuts.

.. warning::

    ``datetime.date`` instances used with :class:`DateTimeField` will use
    midnight as their time component. This is true for both storage and
    comparison. To compare the date portion of a :class:`DateTimeField` with a
    ``datetime.date`` instance, use the :lookup:`date` lookup.

> 

Reviewer 2: My 2¢: this warning is only necessary for `USE_TZ = False` so not sure it's worth it 🤔

If `USE_TZ = True`, Django will emit a Python warning due to the naive timestamp (and fill in the missing timezone with the default timezone).

Author: @shangxiao A `datetime.date` will be treated as a `datetime.datetime` with zeroed-out time regardless of the `USE_TZ` settings's value, correct? I may be misunderstanding how `USE_TZ` is related here.

I'm understanding the ticket to be asking for a warning for users that may not be aware of the "precision loss" caused by mixing these types in the ORM. Is that how you're reading it?

For what it's worth, I personally agree that the warning is not worth it.

:class:`~django.forms.DateTimeInput`. The admin uses two separate
:class:`~django.forms.TextInput` widgets with JavaScript shortcuts.

.. warning::

>     Always use :class:`DateTimeField` with a ``datetime.datetime`` instance. If

Author: "Always" seems a bit extreme to me, but I defer.

    you have a ``datetime.date`` instance, it's recommended to convert it to a
    ``datetime.datetime`` first. If you don't, :class:`DateTimeField` will use
    midnight in :setting:`TIME_ZONE` for the time component. This is true for
    both storage and comparison. To compare the date portion of a
    :class:`DateTimeField` with a ``datetime.date`` instance, use the

>     :lookup:`date` lookup.

Author: Thanks! I added these changes in 0e5ac06.
